hi I'm Melanie McLeroy with Taurus
training for expert village today we're
going to talk about training golden
retrievers a few minutes ago Bodie the
golden retriever practically drugged me
across the parking lot getting over here
to where we wanted to film so he needs
to learn how to heal
now the heal is a position Bodie yeah
it's wouldn't the dogs right shoulder is
even with your left leg you should use
the heel position when you walk so
you're in control of the walk rather
than letting your dog drag you or set
their own agenda
if you haven't already check out the
videos on leadership in a relationship
before you keep working with your golden
retrievers
now mr. Bodie here today kiddo has on a
no pull harness because he was such a
puller this harness is not a traditional
harness it's something that will help
him learn not to pull there's a good
explanation of it in a different video
here on expert village
so what I'm going to do first of all
since he's leaning against me shove him
away a little bit
give him the heel command and then
reward him a lot as he stays in the heel
booty heel I need to get his attention
ah there we go so I have a nice loose
leash he starts to get ahead I just put
a little pressure on the harness and
keep walking
he's very distracted so I'm going to use
food and a whistle to try to keep his
attention and if he looks that good if
he looks at me I'll give him a lot of
reinforcement good buddy now what you
can do if your dog tends to lag or the
leash gets tight let's break into a run
that will kind of stimulate their chase
instinct and you win in a fun way
fine good boy yes Bodie likes to walk a
little bit faster can you no good so I'm
good so I'm using my voice I'm using my
body and whoops good and I'm speeding up
and slowing down to teach him to pay
attention to me
what good heal good sit good
if this tool and this technique doesn't
work for your Golden Retriever simply
check out one of the other breed videos
here on expert village for some other
techniques on teaching your Golden
Retriever how to heal